---
layout: post
title: "Museum of Math"
description: "Interview with MoMath executive director Glen Whitney"
category: articles
tags: [math, interview]
read-time: 3 minutes
comments: true
---

New York City now boasts the newly constructed [MoMath](http://momath.org), which opened up on December 6th. I had the chance to visit the new museum and even got an after hours interview with Glen Whitney, the executive director for the museum. Whitney, 42, previously worked at Renaissance Technologies hedge fund as a quantitative analyst and as a math professor. Asked about his motivation for the creation of MoMath, Whitney cited his passion for mathematics. He wants kids, and adults alike, to see math how it truly is--not as a set of recipes that lead to the right answer if followed exactly--but as creative, diverse, and beautiful. In fact, according to Whitney, "Math is one of the few subjects that someone can still readily discover the unknown and then create from that."
Though aimed at ages 9-14, the hands-on exhibits were enthraling even to me, as high schooler. For example, "math squares" creates virtual puzzels on a LED floor that change ever so often and advance to harder levels as you solve the problems. As well, "Square-wheel trike" represents the multi-aged engagement that Whitney wanted to offer: experiences that everyone from a kindergartener to a pHD professor would be interested in. Young kids view the bike as a fun ride, while high schoolers see the relation of geometry in wheels and ground, while, finally, graduate-level mathematicians understand the differential equations needed to find the shapes. 
The museum helps students understand that math is connected to architecture, nature, roller coasters, music and art. Whitney commented on this, saying that he wants to encourage kids to go into math fields with pass ion and hopes that MoMath can be the experience that sets them on that course. Whitney hopes to spread the idea of creativity and discovery in math across the country to help the math deficient in America, because "if you're not part of the solution, you're part of the problem."